Beagle 2 Mission Updates
- This topic was all about the British-designed Beagle 2 Mars lander. It had a robotic arm with, among other instruments, a drill to reach down to more than 1 m depth below the surface. The spacecraft launched in 2003 with a goal to search for past life on Mars but it did not communicate at the anticipated time on landing on Mars. The ESA announced the mission lost in 2004. It was spotted by one of NASA's Mars orbiters in 2015. The best articles in this tpoic lookead ahead to the launch of the Beagle 2 Mars lander and subsequent search for the probe after contact with the craft was lost before it landed. The worst articles covered a variety of supporting topics generally related to the lander and mission, but did not focus on the mission itself - the primary focus was on scientific researchers who happened to be involved in planning the mission.

Black Holes
- The emphasis of articles here was on black holes. A black hole is a region in space with a strong enough gravitation force to prevent anything that enters from escaping it. Matter is condensed into a very small space accounting for this strong force. Since light can't escape, they can't be seen. Advanced space telescopes that can detect changes in neighbouring stars and infer the presence of a black hole. The best articles anticipated or reported on detection (images) of black holes primarily recorded by the Event Horizon telescope. The worst articles refer to black holes in other contexts - black hole brownies, donoughuts, a topic of mathematics related to black holes and even the existence of Santa claus - and had nothing to do with space!

Cassini mission updates
- This topic was all about the Cassini-Huygens space probe deployed to study Saturn and its rings, moons, etc. The best articles in this topic focused on the Cassini-Huygens mission to study Saturn. Named after European scientists, the ESA collaborated with NASA and the Italian Space Agency (ISA) for the mission. The probe launched in 1997 and the mission ended in 2017 with it descending into, and burning up in, Saturn's atmosphere. Mission updates from the spacecraft entering orbit or descending into the planet were the focus of the best articles. The worst articles also placed some focus on the mission but also reported on news with only a indirect relation to Saturn (eg. Voyager spacecraft that passed Saturn in 1980).

Columbia shuttle crash
- In terms of space shuttle disasters, two major events stand out - the 1986 Challenger shuttle crash a little more than one minute after its liftoff, and the 2003 Columbia shuttle explosion upon its re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. This topic focused on the Columbia crash, but with an emphasis on the Return to Flight mission which involved the Discovery shuttle. Discovery was part of both Return to Flight missions - the first in 1988 and the second in 2005. The articles in this topic did not focus on the Challenger crash. The best articles focused on the Discovery space shuttle launch as the first after the February 1, 2003 Columbia Shuttle crash. These articles focused on Discovery's mission preparations and safe return to Earth, but with Columbia serving as the backdrop due to the connection between the two shuttles - remaining risks that had to be addressed. The worst articles generally focused on space shuttles and covered a wide variety of topics - some examples include a picture taken of the Endeavour shuttle through a plane window, remembering an Israeli astronaut who died in the Columbia crash.

Discovery of Higgs Boson
- Where does the concept of mass come from? According to one branch of theoretical Physics, the fundamental particles of nature (including quarks and leptons) get their mass from interacting with the Higgs Field (representing a transfer of potential energy) via the Higgs boson. This topic was named after articles that focused on the experimental discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The best articles either anticipate the start of or report on findings of science operations at the LHC designed to search for the Higgs particle. Its detection validates the Standard Model of Physics and accounts for the concept of the mass of a body. The worst articles provided general info about the LHC or discussed other types of elementary particles.

Mars mission updates
- In terms of life on other planets in the solar system, all scientific evidence collected to-date has suggested that conditions on Mars supported life in the past. This has served as motivation for missions to study the surface and atmosphere of Mars. This topic focused on these missions - all 49 of them between the 1960s and the end of the 2010s. The best articles looked ahead to upcoming or proposed Mars missions or reported on mission updates. The worst focused on various aspects involved in colonizing Mars - space suits, Mars tourism, extreme weather, etc.

News Reports about Philae lander on Rosetta
- This topic was related to a mission that involved landing a spacecraft on a comet, but with a bit of a twist. The Philae lander was part of the Rosetta mission to study comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko - the first such mission. The mission was managed by the ESA and the spacecraft deployed in the fall of 2014. Unfortunately, just a few days after landing, its orientation prevented it from receiving sunlight to power it. It occassionally sent signals to the parent craft Rosetta the following summer. Without further communication, it could not be used for the remainder of the Rosetta mission which ended in September 2016. The best articles in this topic focsed on the successful touchdown of the Philae lander on the comet and its subsequent loss of power and lack of communication. The worst articles focused on the overall Rosetta mission, that involved Phiale, albeit with only a secondary focus on the mission itself - articles covered people involved in the mission and indirectly associated events.

On the Search for and Detection of Neutrinos
- This topic contained articles focused on detection of neutrinos, the sub-atomic particle originally believed to have no mass and important to understand processing occuring inside the Sun. Since they are neutral (neither positively nor negatively charged), neutrinos can only be detected by their interaction with other particles. The best articles reported on the experimental search for neutrinos. The worst articles predominantly focus on elements of the periodic table and not on neutrinos or other elementary particles.

Report on Detection of Gravitational Waves
- This topic was focused on the detection of gravitational waves at Earth-based observatories. They cause space-time distortions along the path they travel. What causes them? Collisions between massive bodies across the cosmos, such as black holes or neutron stars. They weakly interact with matter unlike more well-known electromagnetic (RM) waves, meaning they can travel across the universe with almost no obstacles in their path revealing nearly undistorted information about their point of origin. This allows scientiest to study colliding black holes, for example. But it also makes them very challenging to detect. The best news articles in this topic cover news reports about the detection of gravitational waves. The worst involve a discussion of types of other types of waves, also on Earth, such as - microwaves, seismic waves, tsunamis, etc., some of which don't involve any form of radiation.

Search for E.T. life
- This topic was all about the existence of life elsewhere in the universe. The best articles report on the efforts to search for exterrestrial life. The worst report on Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) but also various sub-topics related to life on Earth such as human cloning, computer-aided imitation of child's speech. Life forms are very much front and center in the articles in this topic.

SpaceX Rocket Testing Reports
- The focus of this topic's articles was SpaceX - the visionary company founded by Elon Musk in 2002 for building and launching rockets and spacecraft to reduce the cost of realizing life on Mars. SpaceX has partnered with NASA to service the International Space Station. The best articles in this topic were news reports on SpaceX rocket launches and landings (including crashes) or on planned SpaceX missions. The worst articles covered rocket technology (eg. nozzle design, liquid fuel) or the cost of a trip to the Moon on a SpaceX rocket.

Studying Earth-Threatening Asteroids
- This topic focused on asteroids whose trajectory through the solar system poses a threat of collision with Earth. Most asteroids are observed between Jupiter and Mars. They have impacted Earth in the past and will continue to do so. A large enough asteroid and cause tsunamis, large fires and elevate a large enough amount of debris that could block the Sun's light from reaching the surface of the Earth. An approximately 10 mile wide asteroid impact led to the extinction of dinosaurs. The best articles in this topic discuss the search for asteriods whose trajectory involves a collision with Earth. The worst articles continue this theme but also focus on missions to study asteriods such as manned or rover missions to land on and study an asteroid.
